README.md, before:

# Surgical Gesture Annotation UI

## Overview
This project aims to provide a user-friendly interface for annotating surgical gestures in real-time. It is designed to aid researchers and surgeons in studying surgical techniques and enhancing skill training.

## Features
- **Real-time Gesture Tracking**: Capture and analyze gestures as they are performed.
- **Intuitive UI**: A clean and straightforward interface for easy navigation and interaction.
- **Annotation Tools**: A set of tools for detailed gesture annotation and categorization.
- **Data Export**: Option to export annotated data for further analysis.

## Installation
To set up the project locally, follow these steps:

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/sagesnbt/gesture.git
   cd gesture
   ```
2. Install the necessary dependencies:
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```
3. Start the application:
   ```bash
   npm start
   ```

## Usage
Once the application is running, you can start annotating gestures by following the on-screen instructions. The interface will guide you through the annotation process.

## Contributing
Contributions are welcome! Please read the [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) file for guidelines on how to contribute to this project.

## License
This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Contact
For any inquiries or feedback, please reach out to the project maintainer:
- **Maria Clara Morais, MD**, Postdoctoral Research Fellow – Intraoperative Performance Analytics Lab
- **Email**: mmorais@northwell.edu

---

Commit message:

Revise license section and add citation information
Updated license information and added citation details.

README.md, after:

# Surgical Gesture Annotation UI

## Overview
This project aims to provide a user-friendly interface for annotating surgical gestures in real-time. It is designed to aid researchers and surgeons in studying surgical techniques and enhancing skill training.

## Features
- **Real-time Gesture Tracking**: Capture and analyze gestures as they are performed.
- **Intuitive UI**: A clean and straightforward interface for easy navigation and interaction.
- **Annotation Tools**: A set of tools for detailed gesture annotation and categorization.
- **Data Export**: Option to export annotated data for further analysis.

## Installation
To set up the project locally, follow these steps:

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/sagesnbt/gesture.git
   cd gesture
   ```
2. Install the necessary dependencies:
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```
3. Start the application:
   ```bash
   npm start
   ```

## Usage
Once the application is running, you can start annotating gestures by following the on-screen instructions. The interface will guide you through the annotation process.

## Contributing
Contributions are welcome! Please read the [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) file for guidelines on how to contribute to this project.

## License
This research was conducted as part of the 2026 SAGES NBT Innovation Weekend proceedings. Please cite appropriately if using this taxonomy in your research.

## Contact
For any inquiries or feedback, please reach out to the project maintainer:
- **Maria Clara Morais, MD**, Postdoctoral Research Fellow – Intraoperative Performance Analytics Lab
- **Email**: mmorais@northwell.edu

---
